Okay, guys, welcome back to the course.
So our last lecture we talked about the power of hashtags
and how you could use them to drive engagement
on your Instagram post.
Well, promotions are another way to get engagement.
Promise people something cool and then ask them to
do something in return.
So let's discuss Instagram promotions in this lecture.
Back in out lecture about running a promotion in Snapchat,
I mentioned two kinds of promotions
you might consider. You could give away a prize
to a random user, this is called a giveaway,
You could also give away a prize to a user who you
choose based on some criteria or skill - best comment,
funniest video, worst selfie, best photo
including your product, whatever.
This, on the other hand, is called a contest. Well, you could
easily conduct a giveaway or a contest in Instagram as well.
Plenty of brands do. A health and beauty company
in the UK called Superdrug uses Instagram to post
pictures of the products they sell,
and a lot of those pictures are of makeup.
One giveaway they did was this one. "Tag a friend and
you both could win a goody bag filled with all the
new products featured in this picture.
We will announce the winner at 5:00 PM today. Good luck.
#win #giveaway." The picture is a great
one because it shows off the merch.
But other great thing is that they hashtagged it
with #giveaway. If you're curious what people
on Instagram are doing with contests and giveaways,
well, then look no further than those hashtags,
#contest and #giveaway.
So for those of you who are looking for ideas for how to
run your own promotion, there's thousands of them. So
that Superdrug example was a classic
"tag a friend" Instagram promo. By tagging a friend,
yes, you give them a chance to win as well,
but for Superdrug, well, it provides them with more leads,
people they can reach out to on
Instagram to expand their following.
If you did a promotion like this, I'd look at every one
of the people mentioned by their friends in the
comments and then follow them all.
You're bound to get a decent number of followers
back and more engagement in the future.
Giveaways are fairly simple to pull off.
The requirements are usually really easy.
"Like this picture," "Tag a friend,"
"Follow us" or something like that.
Generally, the lower the barrier to entry, the better.
People posting a photo of themselves is good and
it's nice to repost those because it looks organic
and it looks like they really love your product,
but also just asking to tag someone or to repost it or
retweet it, pretty effortless and it gives you free exposure.
Some contests will require all three of those, liking
the picture, tagging a friend, and following you.
So consider how important it is for you to get
that extra like. In the Superdrug example,
all they asked for was to tag a friend and it got over 250
comments, but it also got over 6,000 likes without even asking.
So make your giveaway fun and you won't
have to ask for all that engagement.
Just get what you really need,
new leads for Superdrug in this case, and
then just move on. Instead of a giveaway,
you could do a contest, for example. You could suggest
a theme or idea, tell people to post a picture with
that idea in mind,
use a specific hashtag so you can find it, and you'll
pick the five best pictures to win a free account
for a year or something.
Maybe you sell air conditioners and you post
"Summer is here. What's your
favorite way to beat the heat?
Post a pic and tag it with, I don't know, #CoolestSummerEver."
Something obviously like that, although you probably
want to brand your hashtag to ensure every post
with it applies to your contest, so, you know, if you sell
air conditioners, maybe your company is called
Air Solutions, or, I don't know, something like that,
so in that case you could create the hashtag #AirSolutionsSummer or #SummerSolutions, something that plays
with your brand.
Play with it and go with something unique and memorable.
If necessary, search Instagram to
see if anyone else is actually using it.
Just go to the search screen, click on Tags,
and you just do the search to know for sure.
As for your contest, running a photo
contest is a natural fit for Instagram.
There's lots of creative people out there,
so give them something fun to do.
A radio station in Baltimore ran a summer selfie contest
with weekly prizes and a branded hashtag that
got over 90,000 entries.
Selfies are like the easiest pictures to take, so doing
a selfie contest of some kind, like a shot with
your product, is a very easy kind of contest to do as well.
Now, a clothing retailer for young women called Nasty Gal, I don't
know if you've heard of them, they're actually pretty well-known
in the startup world, took a photo contest idea a step
further and partnered with the musician Courtney
Love to give away a trip to L.A..
That's a little far fetched, but if you
have the budget, it can work.
The instructions were basically,
"Post a picture of your favorite female
artist, explain why she inspires you,
with a specific branded hashtag, then tag Nasty Gal in the picture.
They got something like 13,000 likes and plenty of entries.
If it's possible to partner with another account to
do a bigger giveaway, well, it's worth considering.
Data shows that the bigger the prize,
the more engagement you can get.
Of course, be realistic with this.
Why would you give away $5,000 worth of stuff if
you only have 100 followers?
You probably want to incrementally move up. Start with something
really small and cheap and then keep moving up the scale.
The thing with these advertisements and
these contests is that they're great return
on your money. Giving away something in return for
thousands of likes or thousands of shares, per dollar,
that's a fantastic investment.
Anyway, so you might use a hashtag for your
contest, but be sure to also include a few generic
ones as well, like #contest or #giveaway,
whichever one applies.
Some people on Instagram are just searching for free
stuff and will click on posts with that specific tag.
More engagement could lead to more
followers and shares of that contest.
Part of your promotion should also include
a great picture announcing the contest.
If there's a prize you can show,
well, then snap a picture of it.
People will see that picture first and
then want to know how to get it.
Use text on the image to get even
more details in front of their face.
Like, for instance, "Win this phone" is simple enough.
Now, every promotion needs official rules.
Don't skip this step.
You always have to define the rules.
Now, let's just go over the common
details. Similar to Snapchat,
Instagram has guidelines you need to
review before you run any promotions.
Instagram cannot be directly involved
with your giveaway or your contest.
You cannot say it's sponsored by them, approved
by them, sanctioned by them, whatever.
It's got nothing to do with them
and that's the way you have to keep it.
You are responsible for ensuring that
the promotion is legally put together,
that rules are set out and enforced, and all that.
My general suggestion is to follow the best practices.
Look at what other people are doing, and usually they're doing
it correctly, so just make sure that you're in line with them.
If you're really risk averse, you could probably ask a
lawyer or ask someone who's done these before
and see what guidelines they followed.
So once you pick a winner, post about it and congratulate
your winners, tag them, share their winning
pictures or whatever they did to win.
Encourage everyone to follow you if they already haven't
so they don't miss the next giveaway next month.
Make plans and get people ready to anticipate
more fun stuff from your account.
Be sure to use the same hashtags,
like #contest if it makes sense for you.
Now, above all, have fun with the contest.
If you're already looking at running a promotion as
a big pain in the ass, maybe you're not thinking
of a contest that's a good fit for you.
Promotions come in pretty common forms,
the photo contest, the like, follow, tag type contest,
but think about things your audience would like to see,
want to comment on, or be competitive
about to drive them to take part.
All right, guys.
That's pretty much it for promotions.
Try to incorporate this into your promotional
schedule, they're pretty easy to pull off.
You just have to decide to run a promotion,
figure out what your giveaway is, and then just make
sure that your giveaway matches the size of your
audience and that you're not breaking any rules by doing it,
add your hashtags, and that's pretty much it. Alright guys,
I'll see you in the next lecture.